7 Conclusion
============

In many dynamic settings, our understanding of the true underlying model
relevant for economic decision-making is limited because existing
evidence is weak along some important dimensions. As a result, the
design and conduct of policy occurs in settings in which policy outcomes
are uncertain. We offer the economics of climate change as an example,
but there are many others. We turned to decision theory under
uncertainty to serve as a guide for how we conduct uncertainty
quantification as it contributes to the design of policy. Furthermore,
we showed how different forms of uncertainty impact our quantification,
how information about environmental and economic damages revealed in the
future influence current policies, and how different sources of
uncertainty contribute to the SCC in the presence of model and ambiguity
and misspecification concerns.

Our analysis in this paper is made simpler here by posing the resource
allocation problem as one faced by a single policy maker or social
planner. To push closer to a realistic policy setting, multiple
decision-makers come into play, including alternative policy makers as
well as private sector consumers and investors. Since these different
agents confront uncertainty from different perspectives, their
uncertainty concerns are expressed in different ways. Moreover, in more
realistic policy settings, political constraints prevent first-best
solutions. While we fully appreciate the need to extend our analysis of
uncertainty to address these modeling challenges, we have little reason
to doubt that the uncertainty considerations should remain as
first-order concerns and not be shunted to the background as they often
are in policy discussions.
